# EBS

Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS) is an easy-to-use, high-performance block storage service designed for use with Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) for both throughput and transaction-intensive workloads at any scale. A broad range of workloads, such as relational and non-relational databases, enterprise applications, containerized applications, big data analytics engines, file systems, and media workflows are widely deployed on Amazon EBS.

### EBS types

- Amazon EBS provides three volume types to best meet the needs of your workloads: General Purpose (SSD), Provisioned IOPS (SSD), and Magnetic.

- General Purpose (SSD) is the new, SSD-backed, general purpose EBS volume type that is recommended as the default choice for customers. General Purpose (SSD) volumes are suitable for a broad range of workloads, including small to medium-sized databases, development and test environments, and boot volumes.

- Provisioned IOPS (SSD) volumes offer storage with consistent and low-latency performance and are designed for I/O intensive applications such as large relational or NoSQL databases. Magnetic volumes provide the lowest cost per gigabyte of all EBS volume types.

- Magnetic volumes are ideal for workloads where data are accessed infrequently, and applications where the lowest storage cost is important. Take note that this is a Previous Generation Volume. The latest low-cost magnetic storage types are Cold HDD (sc1) and Throughput Optimized HDD (st1) volumes.

### Encryption in EBS

- Amazon EBS encryption offers seamless encryption of EBS data volumes, boot volumes, and snapshots, eliminating the need to build and maintain a secure key management infrastructure. EBS encryption enables data at rest security by encrypting your data using Amazon-managed keys, or keys you create and manage using the AWS Key Management Service (KMS). The encryption occurs on the servers that host EC2 instances, providing encryption of data as it moves between EC2 instances and EBS storage.

- You can configure your AWS account to enforce the encryption of the new EBS volumes and snapshot copies that you create. For example, Amazon EBS encrypts the EBS volumes created when you launch an instance and the snapshots that you copy from an unencrypted snapshot.

– Encryption by default is a Region-specific setting. If you enable it for a Region, you cannot disable it for individual volumes or snapshots in that Region.

– When you enable encryption by default, you can launch an instance only if the instance type supports EBS encryption.

– Amazon EBS does not support asymmetric KMS keys.

- You cannot change the KMS keys that is associated with an existing snapshot or encrypted volume. However, you can associate a different KMS keys during a snapshot copy operation so that the resulting copied snapshot is encrypted by the new KMS keys.

- Although there is no direct way to encrypt an existing unencrypted volume or snapshot, you can encrypt them by creating either a volume or a snapshot. If you enabled encryption by default, Amazon EBS encrypts the resulting new volume or snapshot using your default key for EBS encryption. Even if you have not enabled encryption by default, you can enable encryption when you create an individual volume or snapshot. Whether you enable encryption by default or in individual creation operations, you can override the default key for EBS encryption and use symmetric encryption KMS keys.

### Automatic backups of EBS:

- Amazon Data Lifecycle Manager (DLM) automates the creation, retention, and deletion of Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS) snapshots. It simplifies EBS volume management by allowing you to define policies that govern the lifecycle of these snapshots, ensuring regular backups are created and obsolete snapshots are automatically removed.

- You can use Amazon Data Lifecycle Manager (Amazon DLM) to automate the creation, retention, and deletion of snapshots taken to back up your Amazon EBS volumes. Automating snapshot management helps you to:

        – Protect valuable data by enforcing a regular backup schedule.

        – Retain backups as required by auditors or internal compliance.

        – Reduce storage costs by deleting outdated backups.

### Here is a list of important information about EBS Volumes:

- When you create an EBS volume in an Availability Zone, it is automatically replicated within that zone to prevent data loss due to a failure of any single hardware component.

- After you create a volume, you can attach it to any EC2 instance in the same Availability Zone

- Amazon EBS Multi-Attach enables you to attach a single Provisioned IOPS SSD (io1) volume to multiple Nitro-based instances that are in the same Availability Zone. However, other EBS types are not supported.

- An EBS volume is off-instance storage that can persist independently from the life of an instance. You can specify not to terminate the EBS volume when you terminate the EC2 instance during instance creation.

- EBS volumes support live configuration changes while in production which means that you can modify the volume type, volume size, and IOPS capacity without service interruptions.

- Amazon EBS encryption uses 256-bit Advanced Encryption Standard algorithms (AES-256)

- EBS Volumes offer 99.999% SLA.
