# Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS)

- EFS provides simple, scalable file storage for use with your Amazon ECS tasks. With Amazon EFS, storage capacity is elastic, growing and shrinking automatically as you add and remove files. Your applications can have the storage they need when they need it.

- You can use Amazon EFS file systems with Amazon ECS to access file system data across your fleet of Amazon ECS tasks. That way, your tasks have access to the same persistent storage, no matter the infrastructure or container instance on which they land. When you reference your Amazon EFS file system and container mount point in your Amazon ECS task definition, Amazon ECS takes care of mounting the file system in your container.

- To support a wide variety of cloud storage workloads, Amazon EFS offers two performance modes:

        – General Purpose mode

        – Max I/O mode.

- You choose a file system’s performance mode when you create it, and it cannot be changed. The two performance modes have no additional costs, so your Amazon EFS file system is billed and metered the same, regardless of your performance mode.

- There are two throughput modes to choose from for your file system:

        – Bursting Throughput

        – Provisioned Throughput

- File-based workloads are typically spiky, driving high levels of throughput for short periods of time, and low levels of throughput the rest of the time. To accommodate this, Amazon EFS is designed to burst to high throughput levels for periods of time.

- Provisioned Throughput mode is available for applications with high throughput to storage (MiB/s per TiB) ratios, or with requirements greater than those allowed by the Bursting Throughput mode.

- Although an EBS Volume can be attached to multiple EC2 instances, you can only do so on instances within an availability zone. But EFS provides a file system interface, file system access semantics (such as strong consistency and file locking), and concurrently-accessible storage for up to thousands of Amazon EC2 instances.

- EFS provides the same level of high availability and high scalability like S3 however, this service is more suitable for scenarios where it is required to have a **POSIX-compatible file system**.
